[Music]
Thank you, everyone. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome. Thank you.
Again, open our prayer booklet and open the page one.
[Singing]
Back to page seven.
Again, thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Again, welcome. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Welcome,
everyone. Again, everywhere, wherever you're watching this teaching, I wish everyone is welcome.
And thank you all for your joyful effort, courage, and commitment and inspiration of holding the
teaching of the Buddha Dharma. According our best capabilities, your best capabilities, with the
devotion and courage and commitment, we're making a difference in our lives and the lives of others
.
We're contributing big, big things to the world and to the future. So I thank you to all and every
of you. Thank you again. And today, we're touching to the teaching of the Buddha, and particularly,
again, the very basic practices of the Buddha's teachings.
And not just only those basic things, but also kind of cooperating every teaching into that
something we can practice, not contradicting. It's nothing but the teaching is contradicting.
From the day one, his teaching, all the way to his enlightenment or his Maha Pariniran, every
teaching is very powerful, very special, very practical, and very, very direct teaching that will
discover our innate nature and nature of every living being.
From the context of love, joy, appreciation, harmony, peaceful, nonviolence, that everyone will
really like to be that way and appreciate it.
No one is ignored, no one is rejected, everyone is included because this teaching talks everyone's
nature, everyone's beauty, everyone's good college, how we strengthen, how we bounce back to our
nature, how to come back us to home, sweet home, the way really actually we belong.
That is what this teaching is all about. Therefore, this is very uplifting, rewarding, encouraging
teachings, teachings that what we're discussing.
So therefore, again, it's very special. And it's entirely teaching of the Buddha, bringing one to
the practices, not just the Hinayana, the Selak, then the Mahayana, Vayayana kind of selected,
divided, but all the teachings.
And many great masters you say, and Kenji Padahiram you say, and my father, Lama Chimi, always you
say, that every Buddha's teaching, even one single word, don't have to be rejected.
All is his teaching. Because all is touching to our nature, our truth, our college, and everyone's
nature. I'm not just talking our, our, but everyone's teaching.
Nature is really touched to their core, and their nature itself, to bring up. Therefore, it is so
special.
So today, we started with the very basic understanding of the way the samsara is, such as including
ourself, started from us, not started from outside, started with us.
Therefore, we touch to ourself, we see how precious our life is. That's what the Buddha said.
That's it. The precious life. The 18 endowments, or 18 very beautiful qualities that we all have.
You have, we have, everybody has that beautiful qualities. We glorify that joy, cherish, and just
strengthen our joy and appreciation.
How beautiful life is. How beautiful precious it is. How special it is. It's much more precious
than the same size of gold or diamond or the silver things.
It's much more precious. That we have that. This is a vehicle of many beautiful things to us, to
all the beings.
Therefore, enjoy the beautiful life. Beautiful precious. Recognize that joyful gratitude. That is
what we started.
And then we look around that. Around, everything is also best on the impermanent. Everything is
moving.
Impermanent is nothing bad. Actually, there is impermanent. Therefore, we can progress. We can make
the difference.
If everything is stuck, we cannot do anything. Impermanent shows variety of opportunity, variety of
the freedom.
That's what impermanent is so special. Have you used the right way? It is beautiful.
Therefore, kind of see everything is changing. Everything is moving. And kind of therefore, have
the great courage and commitment to make the really meaningful of this very precious life.
And then, same time, whatever we do is reflecting back to us. Whatever we do, there's nothing is
coming without any cause and condition.
Everything follows with the same orders. And therefore, be thoughtful. Be kind of mindful.
Every action, trying to do something good, that because it will reflect to us good things and
reflect that good things to the others.
And we like to make that really everything is beautiful, bright and good things. That we should
start right with us.
Our own activities, body, speech, mind activities, we do good things, it will reflect back to us
good things to all others, not just only us.
Because our goal is to benefit to all the living beings. Therefore, again, in that goal, do good
things.
And that is known as the law of karma. And then in samsara generally, we look, there's so many, all
these difficulties and changes, ups and downs.
This is nothing that we're talking again, new things, but it's truly, it is. We have all different
things.
Because this is, also samsara has a lot of these difficulty troubles and a lot of change. Therefore
, we can really progress.
We can develop that. Because this is, in a way, the samsara is filled of trainings where we can
train ourselves.
We can make ourselves strong. Everything is good and all these things. We won't progress anything.
We will become, we'll become almost very soft and very kind of like marshmallows, unusefuls. Really
, we'll become that.
So therefore, samsara has heart and difficulty and challenging things. And we keep up that with
courage and commitment and confidence with teaching.
Heart, we will become so strong. We will become the warriors. We will become the bravery.
And a warrior not just comes from not doing anything, bravery in a warrior comes with doing good
things, move with challenge, overcome that.
Then, that is known as the warriors. That's what in the Buddha teaching, bodhisattvas, courageous
for the enlightenment, courageous for all the living beings.
Truly, that is what it is. So samsara is not something that bad in things. Again, we use this
situation, circumstance, that we can prove.
And that is also not just that we can prove. And what's witnessed by all these great practitioners
in the past, all those bodhisattvas, bodhisattvas, everyone.
They are also facing this same situation in circumstances that because of that, their courage and
commitment, confidence, visions are not wavered or shaped, but even stronger and more powerful.
And then they become as enlightenment, bodhisattvas and so forth.
So therefore, this is what the four reflections that reverse our mind from the kind of timidity
situations, very feeble situations.
It makes us stronger and courageous ones. And after that, once with that understanding beautifully
and kind of help that knowledge very goodly, strongly, and then we take the rafugis.
Rafugis is the root of the teachings. It is that every root of the path is best on the really rafug
is, so that's the rafugis.
Close to the, feeling with, to the dha, the dharmasanga, essence of rafug, as I said this morning,
it is devotions, devotions and strong devotions, closeness, feeling with the bodha, bodhas and d
harmas and sankas.
Once we take the rafug, then essential of the path, or the central column of the path, path is bodh
icata.
And bodhicata, as I said, and you best remember, we already know this, bodhicata is love, bodhicata
is completion, bodhicata is wisdom.
Combined together, all that beautiful things is known as bodhicata, the enlightenment.
This bodhicata is so important. Without the bodhicata, we will not become the Buddha.
That means we will never become overcome of our obscurations. What is obscurations?
Obscurations are ignorance, attachment, anger, jealous, and arrogance.
Without the bodhicata, we will not overcome and remove these five obstacles. Never overcome that.
And also without the bodhicata, we won't help benefit to any sentient beings. Not just only
sentient beings, we won't benefit to ourselves.
Bodhicata is essential. To make happy ourselves, one's own self, to make happy others, to make
peace for ourselves, to make peace for others, that is bodhicata.
That means it's love, it's completion, it's wisdom. And for that reason, the great Master Padra Ram
aji said, as Kinti Padra Kheramaji used it many times, quotations, what Padra Ramaji says,
"If you have one thing that will end up to reach the Buddhahood, or to defeat all the negativities,
it's bodhicata."
And we don't help bodhicata with no matter how much practice you have, how many fancy practices you
have named. All this, it's not going to work at all.
It's all within the ego territories, attachment territories, all emerging territories. It's never
going to work. As explained that.
So for that reason, the bodhicata is so important, so special, so powerful.
Bodhicata is what that bodhicata as he said this morning. It's simple, simple, beautiful, call it
our own true love, true completion, true wisdom.
That is what bodhicata. But we are going to expand that. Expand that without any territories of
dualities and happiness and happiness.
And to all the beings, true love, to all the beings, comparison to all the beings, and have an
understanding of the nature of everything, both externally and everything, wisdom.
That is bodhicata. Way to develop this bodhicata in the Buddha teaching said, there are many
different explanations, but which is mostly very powerful, more direct, there are true bodhicata.
Wishing bodhicata and actualizing bodhicata as I said this morning, and many of you know that. Bodh
icata. Wishing bodhicata and actualizing bodhicata.
Something that you wished in the heart and mind. As we wished in the heart and mind, we are going
to actualize that with the physical activity, with verbal activities, we are actualizing that.
That's called actualizing bodhicata. Now, we think of wishing bodhicata. What is wishing bodhicata?
All wishing bodhicata can be summarized into four. Again, many of you know that practice. We all
know that. This is called poor boundless practices.
Poor boundless practices of bodhicata. That is wishing bodhicata. Poor boundless.
What are the four boundless? It is just our name. You all know. Love and kindness, compassion, joy,
and equanimity. Understand.
This is four special qualities of our nature of the mind. Love, compassion, joy, and equanimity.
This is. And what means boundless? Now, we are going to present time our love, compassion, joy, and
equanimity is with bounded.
These present times, or many of us present time, is bounded because of ego-clinging, because of the
habitu pattern, because of duality, is very limited.
That is not boundless. It is limited. It is bounded within the boundaries.
But when we are really genuinely developing this boundless bodhicata, then we are going to break
that borders and territories, that wall.
That is what is called boundless. It has no border. It has no limitation. No restrictions. It is
outreaching. Call it of love and compassion, joy, and equanimity.
To all the living beings, 365, what could it be? 365 degree angles. Every direction is pervasive.
Not just only now, but also on the future, time.
All the way future, to everywhere. So there is no division by the space, no division by the times.
It is beyond the time and the space of that.
That is called boundless. Love is beyond. When emanating that love, beyond the space and time, and
as well as compassion, as well as joy, and as well as equanimity.
That is called boundless. And also, what is boundless? What means boundless?
We are also reaching this love and compassion, this boundless call, to all the sentient beings, to
every sentient living being.
And a number of the sentient beings, how many are there? According to the Buddha's teaching,
countless. There is no count.
And therefore, our love and compassion, and joy, and equanimity has no count. There is no, not that
many.
It is countless. It is boundless. It is limitless. That is what we are reaching.
As that much, our heart, your heart, is open like also limitless, boundless, vastness.
So then, object level, where is that touching, is boundless. Where is coming, is boundless.
And then, not just that. What is power of that? It is also boundless.
Power is boundless. Power, love, and compassion, versus them, is boundless. There is no count. It
is boundless.
And your where coming, coming from, is boundless. Anybody can tell the border of your mind or mind?
No. Nobody can tell the border of your mind, depth of your mind, territory of your mind, or our
mind, my mind, your mind.
It is boundless. As it is boundless, we are opening that boundless God, exactly as it is.
And boundless to the beings, boundless resource, and boundless benefit, result.
Therefore, it is known as boundless, power boundless. Power boundless.
And you all know, what is love now? Love is, is lovely, beautiful, something very pleasing.
That is love, love. So all the sentient beings, everyone is something pleasant, beautiful.
Again, everyone has beautiful qualities, qualities, no matter whatever they are, in the situation,
in the circumstance.
But reality is so special, so beautiful. It is a display of their own beauty and the nature of
their times.
It is so beautiful. And seeing that beauty as it is, and then you match that, that beauty, call it
this, your love and compassion.
Appreciate that. That is loving kindness.
Also, without the sentient beings, for example, without the others, we are not going to improve
ourselves.
Without the sentient beings, we are not going to become the Buddhahood.
For example, according to Buddhism, Buddhist point of views, we are not going to become the Buddhah
ood.
For that reason, many great masters, and you see, as well as there is very famous master known as
Karma Chami, very famous master.
He said, there is no difference between Buddha and sentient beings to become ourselves the Buddha.
Buddha shows the path and techniques, and the sentient beings show the direct training of our
practices.
Without the sentient beings, we are not going to become the Buddhahood.
Where are we going to practice the four boundless? Where are we going to practice the six paramatas
?
Without the sentient beings. So therefore, both are in that level.
Kind, Buddha is kind, or Buddhas are kind, sentient beings are kind.
This kindness of beings, then beautiful, spiritual, to love to them.
That is really about loving kindness, love. And what is compassion?
Compassion is, when you love someone, and love the one having some difficult troubles, experience
difficult troubles,
you like to be supportive, help, and ease their difficulty in the troubles.
You like to sincerely like to help. For example, when we love our children, or our families, our
relatives, our friends,
if they are having difficult troubles, you really sincerely like to help them.
You like to remove their suffering, the difficult, ease their troubles. So whatever that,
echo to your best capabilities. That is compassion.
It is outreaching, reaching mental, beautiful activity, that like to ease their troubles.
That is compassion. Like to remove their sufferings. Sincerity reaching that.
And then, what is this? Joy. Every human you love, you love the ones having good times,
or they are having beautiful performance in their lives.
We should feel joy. We should appreciate. How wonderful, how beautiful.
And even they are, I mean, whatever they have good performance, enjoy, kind of appreciate that.
That is known as joy and appreciate. Kind of joy and appreciation.
So, performance with every sentient beings. Every being. And that is joy.
And the equanimity. Again, the equanimity has different others.
Many of you all know that has many different meanings.
But in this case, the equanimity means just we are all equal. Everyone is equal.
There is nothing any difference between me and you, and others, or he, or he, she, and everyone is
equal.
Biological, we are equal. Feeling level, equal. And what we share is equal.
I mean, there is nothing really difference. We live in the same, on this earth.
We breathe the same air. We have the same sunlight, same moonlight, same thing.
And we eat the similar things. Food that which gives from the mother earth.
Mother earth, and there is nothing. And our feeling level is the same.
We like to be happy, joy, peace. And we don't like to be suffered, sad, and difficult.
And, tormented by anyone, or used, used, take advantage by anyone.
So, we are same. Whether we can speak that feeling, whether we can't speak the feeling.
But, same thing. The desire is the same.
Destination is the same. We like to be happy, joy, and peaceful. So, everyone is the same. That
means.
And bring that understanding equal. Everyone is the same.
Therefore, like to be happy, and joy, and peace, may they all have that.
This is known as the poor, boneless. And how to put that in practice?
We have beautiful practices that you all have. You know all know. Most of you all know.
This is called poor, boneless practices, which is taught by great masters and buddhas.
Masters taught how to say that word. To activate that quality. And glorify that.
And first is, again, love, compassion, joy, and equanimity.
May all, firstly, how to activate loving kindness, boneless loving kindness.
May all living beings have the great happiness and cause of happiness.
That is practicing of the loving kindness, boneless loving kindness.
May all living beings have the happiness and cause of happiness.
So, that means you are praying to have everyone's happiness now.
But not just only now. Last forever. And forever, that is cause.
If there is cause and conditions, it will then continue, continue the happiness.
If there is no cause and conditions, then we could end up opposite of that.
So therefore, sincerely wishing that for our drift of heart,
wishing may all living beings have the happiness.
Every living beings have the happiness and cause of happiness.
And cause of happiness, what is cause of happiness?
Cause of happiness is love. Cause of happiness is joy.
Cause of happiness is appreciation. Cause of happiness is kindness.
Cause of happiness is wisdom. They have always that quality in their heart.
Without the disturbed by the ego clinging, without the disturbed by the habit patterns, always
shine their heart.
If that shines their heart, the activity of the will be physical activity will be the activity of
loving kindness, compassion, kindness.
And their verbal communication, speech will be that with the speech of kindness, compassion, love,
and then everything will be beautiful.
Everything will be happiness, result will be happiness, cause of happiness.
We are wishing that sincerely from our heart. Heart.
That is what is called the practice of the boundless love.
And that is not just only one, not two, not three, not hundred, thousand, and tens thousand, or
millions, or all the trillions or billions,
but all the sentient beings. That's what we took.
May all the living beings have the happiness and cause of happiness.
Many times in the Buddhism teaching said, may all the parent living beings have the happiness and
cause of happiness.
And according to the Buddha's teaching, this life what we have now is not just the first time we
came here, nor it will not be only last.
This life is just a life. One of them. Now we are moving lives. We are continuing, garland of lives
.
And most of the time when we take the life in this samsara, we had the parents. Most of the time.
Actually there is in the Buddha's teaching, there are four different ways to take the birth in
these realms.
Among that, the parent taking birth with parent is one of the very popular ways to take the birth
in this life, in the samsara.
Yeah, it is. And therefore, every living being, according to the Buddha's teaching, once at a time,
one way or the other, being our parents.
And therefore, among all the beings, the parent is considering very kindness.
Particularly within the parent in the Buddha's teaching many times said as you read too, motherly-
centered beings.
Mother is most challenged to upgrowth of our where we are. Most of the time, she pulled us ten
months in the warms, or nine months.
And during that time, so many difficulties, so many challenges, so many things went up and down.
But she never wavered her compassion, her love to her upcoming babies. She always with joyful, she
always excited to see that.
And then, when we take the birth, also mother went in the Buddha's teaching and Gurbi and Masambha
teaching said that time,
mother and child will go almost halfway to the death. They have so many difficult challenges.
But still, mother didn't wave with difficulty, mother didn't blame. And she continually uphold and
looking forward to see that.
And then, when we were born, we don't know anything, anything, anything. We don't know, know
anything, our future.
We don't know anything in our past, completely blended, except what we know. We're crying, crying,
that.
But again, mother joyfully accepted and nourished, cut the course between her and that babies with
joyful,
joyfully and nourished, and give tender love and compassion and feed our with the breast, breast
feedings.
All those things in the Buddha's teaching said, mother is one of the kind and most kindness beings
to us, to upgrowth what we are now.
At that time, mother neglected, mother through, we won't be like this, what we are now. We won't,
won't.
I'm sure, of course, mothers are not enlightened beings. They can take some mistakes.
Even with what's called without knowing, sometimes they can make mistakes. Unaware, unaware,
sometimes mistakes.
That can't be. But however, deep down, mother being so kind, so nourished, so simple. Every time,
all the way upgrowth, growth.
And sometimes, I mean, you all know that. When we become babies, even if we start walking, there
will be one or two steps.
How mother will say, oh, my parents will say, oh, now this, my baby is walking. My babies start
walking.
They're kind of excited. Otherwise, what a big deal, walking this, this, in one way.
But because of what they love, their kindness, their concern, their appreciation, what they have,
even they're walking.
Walking, they will say, oh, now start walking. That become the kind of, almost kind of history,
even for them.
That is how, that, that means they kiss. And then when we go to the bathrooms, let's go to poo-poo
's, poo-poo's, see that.
And we started really doing the regular way of poo-poo's. Oh, now they're doing the poo-poo's right
there.
I mean, this is all, this is true. This all shows how efficient they have, how loved they have, how
kindness they are.
Truly, that. If that and they neglect and they grow something, drop somewhere, we won't be like
what we are now.
Now, now, so all this, when you look back, it's kindness. And therefore, in Buddhism, it's kindness
, kindness sent in beings and motherly sent in beings.
And this motherly sent in beings, now we are kind of going to stone, good, alert, through their
kindness, their supporters.
Now we like to pay back to their kindness. We like to repay gratitude to them.
And that even we couldn't do anything physically or that. But we think that this is the way what we
started to benefit, to help with all the sent in beings.
Sent in beings. This, we say so. So, may all the sent in beings have the happiness and cause of
happiness.
And then second is the boneless compagant practices. Boneless compagant practice is, then, may all
living beings, or may all motherly sent in beings,
prefer them sufferings and cause of sufferings. Prefer them suffering and cause of sufferings.
And now, what is? Again, we are thinking that not now, only now, but in the future, there is no
more sufferings.
So, there is no more sufferings. What is that? Then is happiness. Then is beautiful and joyful.
Then, what is cause of sufferings? Cause of sufferings, again, is negative emotions.
Negative emotions, such as ignorance, attachment, and anger, and jealousness, and arrogance.
Those are the cause of sufferings. Those are the cause of sufferings with the combination of that.
When it acted verbally, when physically, and also even mentally sizzling in the heart and mind, it
makes uncomfortable.
It makes sufferings to anyone, in that individual state. When it is reflected externally, then it
becomes disastrous, unhealthy things.
And then it creates a suffering. That not ended there. It is, we plant the seed. We started just,
started that.
It goes on. That's the called law of the Skarmas. When you plant the seed, for example, fruit,
fruit seed,
one seed fruit, we plant it on the ground. How many fruit from that will bring?
One orange seed will bring hundreds of the oranges, one up and out, and less.
As long as the conditional circumstances there, it will bring continual oranges, year after year,
year after year, each time.
Hundreds of the oranges. Similarly, that's the seed. When we started, it will bear the similar
fruit, that.
And therefore, we like to remove that. That cause of the suffering is anger, and the jealous, and
the attachment, and ignorance, and arrogance, and combination of those all.
That is what it is. So, we think that. And then the next is joy. Joy.
May every living we have the great, always have the great joy, never separated from supreme
happiness.
And that is, and basically the same, meaning is the same, causes the same as love and kindness.
Then may everyone has great realization of the economy. First, the economy realization can be all
equal.
Everyone is equal. Then in the deeper level, relative truth and absolute truth, everything is in
one equal state.
There is nothing really different. All equal. So, everyone has great realization of equal, name it
in their heart and mind.
Sincerely, kind of wishing that, and saying this word, is called practicing of the Four Boneless.
And when you put that in action, this Four Boneless practice in action, actualizing these Four Bon
eless, then what is called?
Those tony practices. The many of you know that. Tony practices. Exchanging, reserving, and sharing
or giving.
Those all tony practices are activating the Four Boneless practices.
And first, again, to do this, we are all equal. That is very important.
We are all equal. Same way, feeling, emotion, psychologically, physically, biologically, all equal.
Kind of spring that equal realization, equal understanding. It's true.
And secondly, since no one likes to be half sad and suffering, everybody likes to be half in peace.
And therefore, when anybody is experiencing that difficult troubles, then you start giving your joy
and happiness to others.
And if you are courageously, then receiving their difficult troubles to back to yourself.
Self. That is called tony practices. So, tony practices is activating Four Boneless practices.
Mentally, which is so powerful, so beautiful, so spacious. This tony practices. There are so many
stories.
When you practice of tony practices, when you practice of this Four Boneless practice,
even mentally, that thing is really sincere in your heart. Mind is so powerful.
It is healing. It is purification. It is cleansing. It is removing all obscurations.
It will then advance our realization. This Four Boneless practice is so powerful, so special, so
natural, so authentic, so pristine, in a way.
Really, such as no negativities and ego-clinging, kind of stains. It's just so beautiful.
And therefore, this is so spiritual. And in the Buddha's teaching that once upon a time,
Buddha was born as one... I mean, again, this is a long story. I will make this short.
But have you experienced so many difficult troubles, one after...
I mean, first he got so many good things, one after another, that once upon a time,
Buddha was born as a merchant who goes to the ocean.
And then Buddha went to the ocean at that time. It's not that time, Buddha.
But it's called... His name was Nzahri Pomo. And Nzahri Pomo went to the ocean,
and the mother really said, sincerely, "Please don't go to the ocean."
And my husband and your father died in the ocean.
"I don't want you to go to the ocean. Ocean. And please don't go."
And he is determined to go to the ocean because that is what he likes to do.
What the father did, he likes to do the same way.
So finally, he just said, "Mother couldn't stop."
And even mother hold his legs, legs trying to prevent to go. And he kicked to the mother, and he
leapt.
Otherwise, he was so kind and so obedient to the mother.
But that day, he just leapt, kicked the mother, and then he leapt with his friends to the ocean.
And he can time in the story, there are so many times Pomo goes to the ocean
to get the jewel and to get the treasures. So he leapt.
So, you know, in the ocean, and there's a big hurricane, or the second came,
and that boat was upside down, and everybody was completely start sinking.
And the manipulables survived, and then one of them, that time, he was.
He was survived because he hold a piece of the wood from the ship,
and holding that, and kind of swing with that.
And then he went experiencing the different kind of those islands.
He had a good time in one after another, but still he like to go to the south.
Kind of like southern is his hobby, to go to south and south.
So up each time, in the sea, he had indicated, "Don't go south. Don't go south."
But he went south, one after another.
Finally, he reached to the one big, what's called, big iron house, has only one door.
He was so curious, he like to go inside.
And some kind of also indication, "Come, you shouldn't go inside."
And he just, even that indication, he didn't kind of like trust him or follow that indication.
He like to go to see what is inside of that big, iron house, and one door.
And when he went to that iron house, the doors, the door immediately shut down.
So now he was inside. He can't go away.
Inside, there is one man, completely, kind of like, swollen.
He's standing there, and kind of like will is going to his head.
Will is going to his head, like spinning will is going to his head.
And he's also really kind of completely, what's called, smashing his brains, that is so.
He thought, "Oh, so terrible how that happened."
Happened. He kind of really sincerely compared to that.
But same time, he's scared, he like to run away from that.
But he couldn't go because the door was shut.
Immediately, in the sky, the sky kind of came to sound.
What is bounded, released, which is not bounded, bounded.
That sound came in the sky, or in the space.
That happened, the moment that will release, that person's, immediately,
and that will came on his head, and that almost head,
who was former life of the Buddha.
Now his head is spinning, and then it becomes so uncomfortable, so painful.
He was scared, and just frightening that.
But as soon as that happened, then he got the courage.
He thought, "Oh, I'm just one person that happened.
How many people go like this?
What I'm happening, may this become the substitute
to every living being's pain and sufferings with headaches,
and anyone who is going through this, and by this."
And they never sent him being experienced any headaches,
headaches, and head troubles, such as a life.
"May I will take everything. May all that come to me."
He had that sincerely bodhicitta thought.
That moment, the spinning well, went up in the sky.
Sky, and that become the will of the flower garland.
Garland, and he was released.
So this is one of the stories of the wishing bodhicitta,
and particularly, pony practices.
That is so powerful, so special, so healing.
So that is the really about the wishing bodhicitta.
Now we talk a little bit about the actualizing bodhicitta.
When we actualize this bodhicitta, how we do?
This is called six paramita practices that you basically all know.
So I'm not going to talk about these things.
But six paramitas are, what are just the list of names,
generosity paramitas, and morality paramitas,
and patient paramitas, jury effort paramitas,
and concentration paramitas, and wisdom paramitas.
Those are known as six paramitas.
Paramita, what that means, Sanskrit language,
transcendental, I think, that translated into English.
So transcendental practice of the generosity,
transcendental practice of the morality,
transcendental practice of the patience,
transcendental practices of the jury effort,
transcendental practice of the concentration,
transcendental practices of wisdom.
Those are known as six paramitas.
Six paramitas are, that means,
six paramitas are best on the poor, boneless.
Wishing bodhicitta is what you wish.
But when that activating in the externally,
really physically, with verbally, with mentally,
then this is the six paramita.
So nature of the six paramita is poor, boneless.
Its love, its compassion, its joy, its equanimities.
That is what the six paramita is.
Six paramita is not just separated from that.
Generous practice is best on the poor, boneless.
And morality practice is best on the poor, boneless,
and the patient, and so forth.
All that is completely rooted, best, is inseparable.
This, with the poor, boneless.
And poor, boneless is the essential, essential of that.
And every practice cooperated with that.
That is known as activating bodhicitta, bodhicitta activities.
And that is basically practices of the bodhicittas.
And with this realization, with that understanding,
and then we join these prayers here.
And page thirty, page thirty, here I say,
"From now until the samsara becomes empty,
I shall have a complicated benefit and happiness,
all the sentient, barren beings."
That is, that is what you will say.
You will say these prayers sincerely from the heart and the mind,
in the presence of the S.A.A.A. in the teachings,
beseech the object of refuge, be witness, and then join this prayer.
Fill the presence up.
Object of refuge is as in God of Amma Sambo, Buddha Shakyamuni, Dara,
all the Buddha's body is at every level.
Even in the great Master Shanti Deva said,
"You can fill the presence of all the gods and asuras,
everyone right in front, every in front."
Even you can kind of feel all the sentient beings are right in front of you.
They are watching you. They are hearing you, what do you say?
They are seeing your intelligent thought.
You will say that.
Truly, we are not lying.
We are not just a kind of a patron,
sincerely relieving that from our deep heart.
That is what is known as bodhicata, Mind of Enlightenment.
This is the essential, essential of the entire practices.
Whether you practice samatha meditation,
whether you practice mudro practices,
whether you practice zogchen,
whether you practice mahamudra practices,
this bodhicata is the essence.
This is the center columns that we really feel that.
And bodhicata is, then, as the essence, is four bones.
And then, when we activate that, six parameters with that.
So that is we've joined. We've joined, and that's all.
So this is really about bodhicatas.
Now, we move to the, to this mandala offerings.
Generally, now, of course, this mudro practice is
the very kind of instructions of the kind of big, long practices,
the long practices that, this I'm talking now here, that.
But when we put practices, you just put each time, for example,
raffudy wantra, bodhicata.
Raffudy and bodhicata generally always comes to every practices,
then you can focus.
And then, mandala offering, regasattva, and so forth.
So you can select those practices,
start with this raffudy and bodhicata,
as well as that poor training of the mind,
poor reverse of the mind, that you can reflect that thought
for maybe a few minutes.
And with that, raffudy, bodhicata,
and then you can focus each of the mudro practices.
So that is generally that.
Of course, now, today, I'm talking all of these, that.
So it's kind of like, this is a little more, kind of longer,
the detail there, but that's how it is.
And now, we move to the mandala offerings.
Mandala offering is, is now, it is
spiritual practices of the vedayana teachings.
Vedayana teachings generally known as vat.
Of course, the Buddha give the vedayana teaching,
vedayana teaching, vedayana teaching,
every summary is that way.
So there is vedayana teachings.
So, raffudy is the start of teaching in vedayanas.
Bodhicata is the start of teaching in the vedayanas.
And the mandala is as vedayana teachings.
Within the vedayana teaching, every teaching we practice,
we not really excluded that, anything.
So we practice raffudy, we practice bodhicata,
then we practice vedayana teachings.
And vedayana teaching is what?
Always known as full skill means, and a lot of wisdoms.
So combination of the skill means, the wisdoms,
that makes kukri to get our enlightenment,
or to discover our beautiful nature.
And that is what's called the reach of this.
Vedayana teachings.
And vedayana teaching has a lot of skillful means practices.
This mandala is one of the skillful means practices.
Very powerful practice, skillful means, looks like simple,
kind of like very casual, but yet is so effective,
so powerful to increasing the merit
and removing the obscurations, negatives.
And increasing, increasing to remove the obscurations,
that means to remove our habit pattern,
negative habit pattern, unhealthy habit pattern,
unwholesome habit pattern, we need more merit,
or good energy, good energies.
This good energy is known as merit.
Merit is, is, then there is two kind of merit.
A Buddha's teaching, you see that.
Merit, merit that comes from the activities,
if I put simple kind of words,
merit, merit that comes from the known activities, merit.
So that means the energy, the good energy that comes
from the good, good activities,
energy, good energy that comes from known, nothing, no activities.
There's two ways to come.
And what is good activities?
Such as best upon devotion and bodhicata.
Anything good activity we do, that well-generating, then merit
that comes from the activities.
What is merit comes from the known activity?
That is simply meditating.
Meditating, meditation has nothing that we do.
In particular, we rest in the nature state of the mind,
or nature status.
Those are known as shamatha, vibhachana, or zokhi meditations.
We relax on the nature status, not doing anything.
But equally, just simply relaxing.
That also will gain the merit.
So there is a true way to gain the merit,
to remove the unwholesome habit patterns.
That started with the, unwholesome habit patterns,
started with ignorance, attachment, anger, jealous,
hatred, thought, and arrogance.
That will remove, cleanse, and purify that.
And so this mental offering is merit
that was generated with activities, activities.
This, of course, now to do this, this,
and then there's, again, to explain in many ways.
But, and maybe I just today talk simple ones.
Simple one is then, this is the Madala Mudras.
Mudras, that I think many of you already know this.
This is the Mudra.
Mudra is what, I think, if I translate roughly into English,
is symbols.
Symbol or the signs.
These are symbols.
These are the symbols.
But the symbols are generally so powerful, so special.
If we are highly intelligent, by the symbol we understand everything.
Symbol art.
That is in the Vedayana teaching, in the particularly new material world,
called symbolic transmission lineage.
Everything by the symbols.
There is no talks, verbal communication, this and that.
By the signs and indication, everything is clearly understand.
Everything completed this.
And this is called symbols.
And then in the mundane world, also symbol is so important.
For example, to symbolize the United States, of United States.
What is the national flag?
I mean, there's maybe many symbols.
But one is national flag.
National flag symbolize entire these great countries.
It is a big symbol.
And that kind of, all those who know, can tell all these stories.
From that symbol of this, what's called the star springer,
springer banners, star springer banners.
You can tell all these stories.
That is a symbol.
I mean, symbol is so powerful, so special.
It has big meanings.
And in the Vedayana teaching, there are so many symbols.
Symbols.
And among that, this is called mandala symbols.
And mandala symbol is symbolize, lies at this time.
For example, entirely universe.
This is a symbol.
This looks like kind of very simple.
I mean, of course, it's simple.
Simple.
But yet, it is so effective, so powerful.
It is in whole universe.
That symbolize by this.
This.
That is what offerings.
But then, of course, whole universe.
Universe what?
It's called outer universe in inner universe.
This symbolize all that.
Outer universe, inner universe, whole universe
without any exceptions, without any left behind.
Exclude anything.
It is symbol.
This is the universe.
At this time, what is this?
For example, there is five things.
Five things.
Five things are the south, north.
Sorry, east, south, west, and north.
This is four.
So four directions.
Four directions and a center.
It's not in summaries.
So that is the code of Buddhism.
This is the whole cosmology.
Everything is this.
And this inwardly is symbolize our physicals.
This is what?
This center symbolize our head.
For this direction, for this lens,
it's for our limbs.
To feet, to arms.
That includes everything, our bodies.
Then it is symbolize inward, most inward, in five senses.
Every senses.
So this is symbolize everything.
Now we are not that offering.
Entirely universe, externally, entirely universe.
And inwardly, our physical, our body.
And more deeper level, our senses, our intelligence.
And then more deeper level, our awareness of wisdom.
Five wisdom.
All that we are making offerings.
We are opening that.
So this is very brilliant.
Otherwise, we use also, according to tradition,
when you practice mandala, such as can be like,
mandala, offering mandala in the practice of mandalas.
And then we use the mandala plate and so forth.
But today, I guess we will go briefly about that.
So with this, this is symbol of that.
So everything.
And also is including all the past life activities.
Past lives are our wealth and the belongings
that we left behind somewhere that in the past lives.
And present time, whatever we have, everything.
Our body, our speech, our wealth.
And the future of whatever we are going to do,
anything that in the future lives, all even,
bring that everything right to the here.
And mentally bring that.
Including all the universes there.
And with this, then in the teaching,
also see kind of sun and moon.
And all that, also visualize everything here.
So externally, everything.
Inwardly everything.
Our body, speech, mind.
And that, feel the strong presence of the
(inaudible)
And everyone lineage master right in front of that.
And then you make that offerings.
Kind of really sincerely that you make this offering.
(inaudible)
He said that the body enjoyment,
positions and the glories and the succession
of all of my lives of the past and now.
And then in all the succession lives of the future,
everything I offer to the three jewels.
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha.
Order to complete it to accumulation merit.
So what's the merit?
Accumulation merit.
In order to cleanse and purify,
the two obscurations.
Emotion obscuration.
And knowledge obscuration.
That I removed completely.
And with that sincerely thought,
and make that kindness.
Virtualize that, meditate that and kind this prayers.
This is known as mandala offerings.
And what is generally mandala offering?
Nature of the mandala offering is
among the six part of mothers.
What is this?
It's generosity practices.
Generous, generosity is what?
Essence of generosity practice is sharing.
Sharing, you're sincerely, you're ready to share.
Share.
You really like to share to others.
Not going to make the distractions.
But sincerely sharing attitude is the nature of the generosity.
And this time we're sharing everything.
We are offering that.
Giving that.
That to the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha,
and Gaurabra, and Sambhava.
All the enlightened beings should do this.
That is what mandala offerings are really that.
So that is really about the mandala offerings.
And now we move to the next is
is the vajasattva practices.
Vajasattva practices again as I said before.
Thank you.
As I said before,
now this mandala offering,
vajasattva practices,
guru yoga practices is all is known as the vajayana practices.
It is the essence of the vajayana practices.
Now the vajasattva practices has two different steps practices.
Practices.
We visualize vajasattva above our head.
We remain ourselves as regular as what we are.
And then practice vajasattva.
Also the second step is we visualize ourselves as vajasattva.
And then we practice vajasattva.
There are two different steps.
Both steps generally,
I guess the practice is very famous to purify our obscurations.
And obscuration of ours and obscuration of all the sentient beings.
That is what the practice of the vajasattva.
So it is very powerful purification practices.
Now practice generally,
visualization of vajasattva.
What is vajasattva generally?
First of course,
basically many of you already know.
Vajasattva is totally enlightened beings.
Totally Buddha.
That means it removes all the obscurations
and self-importance
and grasping, clinging,
drawing.
That removes completely,
completely clear way
and reverts the ordinary nature.
Love and compassion and wisdom.
Completely.
That is known as vajasattva.
And vajasattva is living Buddhas.
It is not the past Buddha.
It is not the upcoming future Buddha.
It is living Buddha.
Also, vajasattva is known as
embodiment of all the Buddhas.
Embodiment of all the Buddhas.
And often said,
all Buddhas can be
kind of
known as the peaceful wrath of deities, whatever.
That all can come.
Come to the five dhyana Buddhas.
And all five dhyana Buddha can be summarized
and concluded within one Buddha.
And that is the Buddha vajasattva.
Vajasattva is known as
then lord of the sovereign Buddha
of all the enlightened beings.
So that is the vajasattva.
And then vajasattva is so powerful
to purify the negativities, obscurations, obstacles.
And the negativities are then
what is negativities?
Negativity is then we have done
many negativities.
By our, again, negative emotions.
It is the same thing.
By ignorance, by attachment,
by our anger,
by our jealous, by our arrogance,
we can do mistakes.
That even we don't want,
or we look at that,
even we don't want to do,
but sometimes unknowingly,
on a way we do mistakes.
But mistake is a mistake
whether we know or whether we don't know.
A mistake becomes a mistake.
It's the same in the teachings said.
Whether you know or whether you don't know,
we eat the poison, it will affect us.
This is nothing that it has to do.
But negativity is negatives.
And that is now.
Who did these negativities?
It's our mind.
Mind, a negative has no good quality at all.
But one good quality is,
we can cleanse and purify.
That is a good quality of the negativities.
So, therefore,
now, this time,
and there's also many different techniques
to purify the negativities.
In the Hinayana teaching,
Mahayasaka Mahayana teaching
and Vajrayana teaching,
but among all the techniques
in the Vajrayasada practice,
the most powerful.
In the Vajrayana teachings,
every negativity can be cleansed
and purified by the practicing
of the Vajrayasada practice
because of the Buddha Vajrayasada's
previous commitment, his inspiration.
In the teachings said,
by hearing my name and practicing of me,
I will not cleanse and purify
the negativities of the sentient beings.
I will not become the Buddha
or I will not become the Buddha.
They made the commitment.
And it's as he made the commitment,
if we practice the meditation,
it cleanses the purify, the negativities.
Therefore,
the Vajrayasada becomes the Buddha.
For his commitment.
So, for that reason,
then Vajrayasada is so powerful,
so special practices
to cleanse and purify the negativities.
And negativities of our past,
negativities of these lifetimes,
negativities maybe will happen in the future.
All that negativities,
we get together and cleanse and purify that.
So, that is really about how we practice
the kind of meaning of the Vajrayasada practice,
meaning of the power of the Vajrayasada's.
Now, we show how to do
cleanse and purify the negativities.
Generally, always in the teaching said,
whenever you know,
always we should think poor powers.
Poor powers, if we do,
then really we will purify the negativities.
First, the power of the object.
Second, the power of the,
of the recognizing the mistakes and the errors.
And third is power of the determination
of not repeating.
And fourth is power of the using,
applying the antidotes.
Antidotes.
So, those are the poor powers.
A poor power ever used,
no matter how the negativities are big,
can be removed, can be cleaned,
can be completely burned away.
So, therefore, this is poor powers.
First power of the object,
there is two powers.
Power of the object of the external,
power of object of the inner, inner powers,
inner powers.
And first power of the object is,
I already explained, and you already know,
is Buddha Vayasattva.
Vayasattva,
Vayasattva, male and females, with that.
That is what we visualize.
Both Buddha Vayasattva,
male and female,
and this total enlightenment I make already,
that is the power of the object by external.
Power of the object of the inner world
is your devotions,
your bodhicata,
our determinations
that we like to cleanse and provide.
That is inner power.
Now, inner power of the object,
the outer power of the object,
combined together, strongly that.
Then we visualize.
That is become known as power of object.
Now, to visualize the Buddha Vayasattva,
we are going to visualize Buddha Vayasattva
right above our head
and facing same directions.
Same direction where we are facing, our south.
Buddha Vayasattva is one face, two arms, two legs,
sitting with various postures,
on the lotus and moon desks.
And Vayasattva is a union with the consult,
known as yima.
Also, one face, two arms, two legs,
and a union with that.
And that is known as power of the object of the extent.
And now, when you visualize the Buddha Vayasattva,
it is also transcendental western rainbow body.
Transcendental western rainbow body is body,
is transcendental western rainbow body
as a reflection moon in the water,
not substantial solid existence.
And his voice, or his or her voice,
is also a melodious voice
of the soothing and calming in the teachings.
It's calm and soothing,
and sound of blessings, sound of the happy, peace.
That is his voice, her voice.
His wisdom mind, mind is wisdom.
Compassion, love, and kindness,
and then love and kindness.
That is, nothing, that is.
So outside, inside, he speaks,
and all the absolute transcendental western rainbow bodies.
Then there is, of course,
explaining of all the major and manual marks
and the seven qualities of the peaceful Buddhas,
and as well as all that.
But generally, so really,
I won't go all those numbers right now,
but all that is known as transcendental western rainbow body.
Advaita Sattva's embodiment of all Buddhas,
as I said, his embodiment of all Buddhas
of the past, prison, and the future,
every Buddha, every enlightened begins
to want to get one single state of this Buddha.
That is the Buddha Vaidya Sattva's.
Buddha Vaidya Sattva,
that means love and compassion,
wisdom of all the Buddhas come together,
one single state.
A total union with concert, great blessfulness,
and transcendental transparent,
listen to the status.
Status.
That is the way we are going to visualize.
And merely think of the Vaidya Sattva
and it removes all our suffering,
the difficulty, troubles, and obscurations.
And at the same time, as you visualize,
you have stone devotions,
devotions, stone devotions.
And also we practice this not just only for us,
but we practice it for all the sentient beings,
all the sentient beings, to remove the suffering,
the difficulty, troubles, every living beings.
And sincerely feel the closeness,
feeling Vaidya Sattva, with the devotions,
without doubt and hesitation.
That is the inner power of the object.
So you visualize this.
So that is kind of really about the power of the object.
Second power of the recognize our error, mistakes.
This is generally mistake's mistake.
When we see something mistake that we made in our lives,
since we had memories by our negativities,
such as ignorance, attachment, and all that,
we see that clearly remember something,
bring up that.
Recognize error is error.
Mistakes, mistakes, acknowledge it.
We're not going to hide that with our ego clingings
and arrogance or kind of hiding.
We're going to really see, oh, I did mistakes.
Now I'm going to cleanse it, purify that.
And that is right, bring that right in front of us,
toggen with that.
All the mistakes what we had the past, mistakes in the future,
and not just causal mistakes, the ignorance, attachment,
anger, and jealousy.
That also, whether we're actively doing something with that
or not, this is a mistake.
That is mistake is mistakes of the ego cling,
mistakes of the dualities and habit,
but I'm going to cleanse and purify that.
Include duality, include ego cling itself,
I'm going to cleanse and purify.
Kind of strongly think that, that.
So recognize that in a way, targeting that.
You're targeting to cleanse and purify that.
Third power is power of the not repeated that again.
And particularly this time, that activity, that hurt myself,
hurt my friend, family member,
or anyone wants that going to hurt or did hurt.
That is not good.
I'm not going to repeat that again.
Kind of, by the blessings of all the linear masters,
may I never repeat that unhealthy,
unwholesome habit-dependent activities.
Again, that kind of have very determination,
convection area, potent in your heart and mind,
or our heart and mind.
Strongly that, really that.
May I'm not going to repeat that.
May it never happen that again.
Again, I'm going to stay very wholesome, clean,
puri, puri, puri status that make benefit to beings that, that.
So that is called the power of the, of the not repeating
or uprooting, that will uproot, uproot the negativity
and the power of not repeating that.
Poor this, because of that.
Now you're going to, as you recognize the target,
you're kind of connected,
recognize the target of the errors and mistakes.
And then now we're going to use antidotes.
Antidotes, strongly.
And antidote is, again, best upon the bodhicitta,
best upon the devotions,
and the best upon, upon the meditation.
And then now we're going to recite the mantras.
Mantra.
So we visualize, we just start right above as head.
And then, all that.
And now you're going to recite the mantra.
100 syllable mantras is here, making one, that 100 syllable mantra.
Here is it.
As you recite in heart center of the vajasattva,
there is a moon desk, moon desk, vajasattva.
As you recite in the mantra, in the human mantra, heart center,
that moon desk, there is a center of the moon desk.
In heart center, there is a home syllable.
Home syllable, white home syllable.
That home syllable is circled by with these 100 syllables.
When you recite in the mantra,
that also starts shimmering and reciting.
And from that, a lot of natural standard is centered.
From the heart center of the vajasattva,
it came down through the union status, through the union.
And then it came to our kronchakra,
and then entered our body and cleansed all our negativities.
Negativities, cleansing, that.
And really feel that is removed.
And that also, that light is going to all the living with that.
Cleansing, purifying, their obscenities, negativities.
And then, but more focusing to yourself,
and cleansing, purifying, removing that.
Everything negativities are going away.
All that, recited this mantra every year of time.
Seven times, 21 times at the beginning of times.
21 times at the beginning of times.
After that, vajasattva dissolved.
Vajasattva both male and female dissolved into light.
And that light came down to your heart center.
That moment, you become the vajasattvas.
Yours will now become the vajasattva.
Exactly the same, call it as we visualized.
As we visualized.
And then recited these short mantras.
Short mantras.
That's maybe one mala.
This is a short mantra, one mala.
After that, then that old visualization is dissolved,
dissolved in your heart center.
And heart center, nature of the mind.
And nature of the mind is when beyond of any reference points.
And relax, meditate, and that nature states.
As long as you have time, I will say about maybe five minutes.
Five minutes.
Five minutes or whatever that.
So that is really about the vajasattva practices.
And now, maybe you have some questions.
Maybe a short time.
And then I will go to the guruvihoga.
Or I just do continuity now.
Maybe do okay, continue.
Okay, so the vajasattva practices.
So now, this will be completed what?
Rafuj, bodhicitta, mandala offering or rafuj with pore station.
Bodhicitta, mandala offering and vajasattva.
That will be complete very simple or the essence meaning this.
Now, the fifth one or the sixth one is then practicing of the guruvihoga.
That what is called here.
Swampli penitering blessings of the gurus.
This is now blessings.
So is Swampli receiving the blessings.
What is the blessings?
Blessings is unceasing energy of loving kindness,
compassion, wisdom that started from the Buddha Shakyamuni
or the Buddha samadabhadra to vajadhara
and then Buddha Shakyamuni.
Then continue to guruvihoga, sambhava, ichimsoji
and continue until now from the master to master
or the disciple to disciple continually unceasing lineage.
That is now really here we are receiving.
When we receive that blessings and streams of that, what is what does?
It will activating our realization.
Our nature beautifully and glorify that beautiful nature.
And so that is the Buddha, the blessings.
And that is to come this is then is known as practicing of the gurus,
practice of the guruviyogas.
Now, what is generally gurus?
Guru is then has again there is two meanings.
A kind of simple way to tell, the outer guru and inner gurus.
Outer guru is such as we are visualizing gurupayama sambhava
as embodiment of the old teachers, masters, lineage masters,
all the Buddha dharma sangha, all guru deva dakinis,
all that what we visualize.
That is the outer gurus.
Inner guru is our your devotions and your bodhicatas
and your devotion the free from or confidence, confidence.
The devotion, confidence and bodhicata is inner gurus.
Together with that as said this morning, what is mindfulness, alertness,
all consciousness, those are the inner gurus.
Outer guru and inner gurus are combined target.
That is the practices of the gurus, that now practices.
To do this visualization or two practices, there is a different systems, substance.
Sometimes you can maintain as yourself as what we are
and then visualize the gurupayama sambhava or the lid right in front of us
or above our heads.
And sometimes you can visualize the inika ditis or buddhas,
your side and visualize the gurupayama sambhava right in front of our skies
or the lineage masters.
In this case here said veggie yoginis.
So now we are going to visualize ourself as veggie yoginis
or to practice like this.
And this is again why we do the veggie yoginis.
Generally in the teaching said, veggie yogini is what?
Known as mother of the old buddhas.
Now we like to give birth of ourself as buddha.
We like to become birth of the buddha in our heart and mind.
Therefore we connect to the mothers.
Mother, a mother is known as, veggie yogini is mother of all the buddhas.
Other pandya paramata is known as mother of all the buddhas.
And so this case veggie yogini is pandya paramata is tara yishinshoja.
That is what we are going to visualize as I said
to give the birth of the buddhahood to ourself now to do that.
And that is the what?
And the veggie also veggie yogini or the what is mother of the old buddha
means what?
Generally is also known as the wisdom.
Wisdom is open wisdom.
Open wisdom is free from any attachment, free from any grasping.
That is the wisdom.
When we have that wisdom then we are ready to give the birth of the buddhas.
And this is the nature of our mind.
The nature of our mind is free from duality, free from grasping,
even though we didn't recognize yet immediately that.
But that is really our nature.
That is the Dzogin state.
Dzogin state is mother of all the buddhas.
So this time we visualize veggie yogini or inseparably yishinshoja.
Dzogya is ourself.
And veggie yogini is then one face, two arms, two legs.
Right?
Sitting on the lotus.
Not sitting, sorry.
Standing, walking postures.
Walking postures, standing on the lotus with walking postures.
And one face, two arms, two legs.
And with radish colors.
Radish colors.
And then she hold, hold in the dhammaru and skull cups.
Or some teaching said also tridentity.
But anyway.
And so that is our veggie.
Our veggie yogini is also transcendent of the wisdom of our body.
Totally glowing, wisdom enlightened state in a very radical state.
That's glowing state.
That is what we visualize.
Right in front of the sky we visualize gurupyama sambhavas.
Who is?
As in the teaching said, our root teacher manifested palm dapyama sambhavas.
So our teacher, all our lineage master, everything is done.
Come in one single state as I said this morning.
Many times it's gurupyama sambhavas.
Gurupyama sambhavas.
That's what we see.
Gurupyama sambhavas is one face, two arms as you all know.
Mostly you all know.
And again transcendent of the wisdom of our body.
Body, embodiment of all the buddhas, everyone that's what we see.
That we visualize.
And gurupyama sambhavas is looking to us.
I will love and compare your wisdom.
And we let it smile.
Radiating light of love and compare your wisdom to us.
To all the beings.
To feel strong devotions.
To write strong devotions.
And also strong kind of confidence and joy.
Today I'm going to reveal the perfect nature of my own self.
And to order to benefit to all living beings.
Really thinking that strongly sincerely wishing.
Beautiful wishing that.
And then we realize gurupyama sambhavas.
With that thought and then join these following prayers here.
Said that embodiment of all the buddhas of three times without exceptions.
Mostly excellent root teacher.
I pray to you.
And then here in these future lives and pardo in these three times hold me your compassion.
Bless this is literally throughout the three times.
Times, join that three times.
Times.
You can join this in it a bit.
You can join this in it.
But trying to catch the meaning.
Sensitively.
This is devotion call.
This is devotion prayers.
And this is what we like to be.
What we like to be.
What we like to be now.
What we like to be in the pardo.
What we like to be in the future.
And not just only what we.
We like that prayer to all the sentient beings.
May everyone become in that way.
That way in the product I showed every part to the enlightenment states.
Really we sincerely.
We can bring that.
Join this.
This.
As you join this prayers.
From the Murappan Masambha.
Also emanating so many lights to you.
To you.
So reverently as to that nature.
You already were a Yogini state.
You already in the way.
Yichinswaja status.
Now reverently.
Continually that nature.
Exactly what Yichinswaja reverent.
What the way the Yogini is.
That is what we really see this.
Sensarily that.
Kind of feel a strong bond between.
Between Murappan Masambha and yourself.
With the affection.
With the loving kindness.
With the devotion.
And with the great blessfulness.
Very uplifting.
And not just only this.
You and Murappan Masambha.
But entirely universe is thus formed.
In the pure land of Murappan Masambha.
Copper glory mountains.
Every inhabitant beings.
Are also in the way.
With their dharas.
Male and females.
Or Yogi in a Yogini.
Everyone seen that.
End of it that strong devotion.
And strong confidence.
And then.
Reciting the Mantra of Murappan Masambha.
As you reciting the Mantra of Murappan Masambha.
Krum Murappan Masambha.
Emanating.
Slatter light.
From his forehead.
From his speech center.
From his heart center.
Such as a white arm.
Red arm.
Blue arm.
And multiple light from every pulse of his body.
And coming to you.
Showers that.
As rain dawn.
And cleansing and purifying.
Activating our own Buddha natures.
In the absolute, utterly beautiful state.
Enlightened status.
And whole universe is now transformed.
In that great blessfulness of mandalas.
As it is.
Which then reciting this Mantra.
Onvahong.
Virgin Gurappan Masadyam.
As many as you can.
Or one Mala.
Two Mala.
Or three Malas.
Or maybe at the beginning of 21 times.
Whatever you can do.
But strong devotion.
Without a doubt and hesitation.
This time also devotion means.
No doubt.
No hesitation.
No kind of any intellectual area.
This and that.
Without interference that.
Our thought.
With all the thought.
Rest our mind.
One single state of devotion.
And concentration.
Very relaxed calm.
Peaceful atmosphere.
Relax that nature status.
States.
And continue reciting the mantras.
That is known as practicing of the Guru Yavas.
We practice it this way.
Every blessing, the realization will come so fast.
And so quickly.
So quickly.
So immediately.
And this devotion generally.
When we have the devotions.
Then everything comes.
So beautiful.
And the Buddha's teaching said.
When you don't have the doubt and hesitation.
Everything is fulfilled as you wish.
Doubt and hesitation are the interference.
And of course.
At the beginning time when you are studying.
When you are contemplating or studying time.
We can have question and answer and doubt and hesitation.
So these things we can do that.
But when you come to the practice time.
Really it should be embarrassed that really.
Really devotion.
That means no doubt.
No hesitation.
Stay with the one point in the mind.
With that.
With that is.
Then in the Gaurabhema Samba teaching what is it.
And you have the devotion.
Devotion.
I was right with you.
Or I'm with you.
Right that time.
With the devotion.
Gaurabhema Samba is right with us.
And with the devotion.
Also all the Buddha's bodhisattvas are right with us.
That.
And the Buddha's in Gaurabhema Samba.
And any enlightenment.
Has no distance between time and space.
As soon as we have opened the door of our devotion.
The Buddha's right in front of us.
Right with us.
That.
So.
And for that reason.
This is devotion practices.
And that is what we should really stone.
And then when the devotion comes.
And then there is always realization.
Don't.
This is for example.
Witnessed by all the great masters.
When you read.
For example.
The life story of the great master.
How his devotion is strong.
And long shimbas.
And devotion.
So all realization comes with the devotions.
Realization comes.
And then.
For example.
Great master.
Malarepa's.
His devotion.
His unfailing.
That devotion.
That he get enlightenment.
Within his lifetime.
So that is long shimba.
Everyone is this.
There is a very famous master.
Of the like.
Again.
I think it is one of the great master of the Khaji schools.
He said.
If you don't have the devotions.
There is no sunlight of the blessing will come.
To you.
If there is no sunlight of the blessings.
That.
Then.
There is no realization will draw that.
So the sun.
The devotion is warm.
Devotion is light.
Devotion is.
Then.
Siddling growth.
Signs of the realization.
Without that.
It is not going to happen that.
So devotion also means.
We settle to the practice now.
We are not going to lingering.
We are just hovering that.
We really settled our soul.
So this is what the devotions.
After you practice this.
As many as time as I said one mala.
After that.
Then you receive the final blessings.
Those are known as the blessings of the body.
Speech.
Mind.
That you received.
And that is then.
From the forehead.
From the forehead of the M.Sambhava.
Receive.
Right.
Light.
Came.
To your right.
Your forehead.
It cleans all the body obscurations.
Receive the body blessings.
And then.
Begin to actualize with the namakaya states.
From the speech center.
Red.
R.
From the M.Sambhava.
M and R.
Red.
Light.
Enter your speech center.
And that cleans.
You receive the speech blessings from the M.Sambhava.
And cleansing all our speech obscurations.
You will begin to actualize with the sambhaka states.
From the heart center of the M.Sambhava.
Ammonating.
Blue light.
And that we received.
What's the mind blessing with the M.Sambhava.
And cleansing the obscurations.
Our mind obscuration.
That cleans the purify.
We begin to actualize with the.
Darmakaya states.
And then from the three places of the M.Sambhava.
Poor head.
Speech.
Heart center.
Three light come.
All from the heart center.
Multiple light came once more again.
Enter your three places of the heart center.
And that you receive the entire blessings of the body, speech, mind, M.Sambhava.
Cleans the habit obscurations of all our obscurations.
We begin to actualize the ultimate state of the Buddhist states.
Completely.
All the sambhavakaya states.
That you received.
And finally in the M.Sambhava.
Excited and joyful.
Your devotion is in the M.Sambhava.
Kind of overwhelmed that.
And that moment M.Sambhava dissolved.
And multiple lights become small.
Spare of light dissolved in the M.Sambhava.
Multiple spares of light that come to you.
Instant to your heart center.
And then your M.Sambhava.
And your mind.
And M.Sambhava.
M.Sambhava without any separation and difference.
And you become one with M.Sambhava.
Merging your mind with mind of the lineage masters of M.Sambhava.
And then meditating on that nature status.
As long as you time.
And relax.
Not thinking in the past.
Not thinking in the future.
Not also wondering thought in any directions.
Relax and fresh moment present status.
As it is.
In that origin status.
As long as you can.
Or as long as you have time.
During that time your mind won't stay exactly that way.
And the moment you see mind is going away.
Don't follow the thought.
Don't analyze.
Again do the same.
Relax on the nature status.
Without any division of the past, present and future.
Relax.
Just relax the present status.
That is known as freshness state of the ordinal, ordinary Dharmakaya status.
And the Dzokhi state.
That is what the practice is.
Meditate.
And then also to do these things here.
Like I said here.
I mentioned already this.
That is this meditation guru, kaya, vaka, kasna, chai, and those.
And the final teacher dissolved.
And then he has said behold the emptiness awareness.
The true face of lama.
Emptiness awareness is what that emptiness awareness is.
This is our own nature of the mind.
Or our mind.
When you look to your mind.
To your mind by your mind.
Or by your mind to your mind.
What do you see?
There is nothing to see.
That is known as emptiness awareness.
That is the ordinary nature.
That is the ordinary nature where everything started.
This is the nature.
Just relax on that natural status.
Status.
That is many times also known as prison status.
It is the right prison.
It is fresh.
It is not delivered by any consumption.
Relax on that natural status.
This is known as zokchin status.
This is also known as mahamudra status.
This is known as pandyaparamudra status.
This is also known as mademaka status.
Relax on that.
That is then the absolute guru.
Absolute Buddha.
Your inner nature, my inner nature.
Relax on that.
And so that.
So that is really about the guru yoga practice.
Now next one is then here.
The additional practice is here.
The pud here.
This is the poor practices.
I pray to the product of amidabad Buddha of limited light.
Grant me the blessings become a conflict in the profound part of the poor.
This is the poor practice.
This is transferring the consciousness.
This is generally the additional instructions.
How we take care of ourselves.
Moment of the time of believing this is our body.
Physical status.
Sooner or later, we believe this is our physical body.
We are not going to stay with this forever.
Therefore, how are we going to take care of ourselves?
Most of the time, we leave our body without any goal.
Without any preparations.
Without any destinations.
But this time, by the Buddha, by the Gaurabhama Sambhava,
through their kindness instructing us how we should be prepared,
how we should be ready to leave this world.
World with style, with destination, with goal.
That's really what it is.
Poor practices.
Poor practice.
We live with confidence.
We live with the goals.
We will live with visions.
Visions.
That's what I'm saying.
We will live with style.
That's it.
So for that is known as poor practices.
Really, this practice is a preparation for that.
And this is what.
Our consciousness, there are always three intentions.
Three intentions we should have.
This is what I'm talking about.
Three intentions.
The intention of the destination,
intention of who is going to leave,
intention of the passage.
There are three ways.
A board, a board, a goal, or the destination,
traveler, and the passage.
Three things.
The destination is then here.
Buddha Amitabha.
The pure land of the Buddha Amitabha.
Again, among all the Buddhas in the Buddha Amitabha said,
this is his aspirations.
It's easy to take birth, easy to go to that places,
to any, than any other pure lands, Buddha lands.
So therefore, here is Buddha Amitabha.
So destination is Buddha Amitabha.
And pure land of the Buddha Amitabha.
Who is going to leave?
Is our consciousness.
Actually, who will take rebirth?
A court of Buddhism believes rebirth.
Who is going to take rebirth?
Not by body.
Body will leave behind.
Rebirth will take by consciousness.
Our mind, that means your mind, my mind will travel.
That is what is going to travel.
And so, this time, mind is travelers.
How is going to travel?
Travel, the passage.
Passage is the channels.
This time, our channels.
Body has so many channels.
And again, I'm not going to all those things.
But this time, we're going to see, pick up one channel.
That's called central channels.
Central channel is passage.
That's it.
We're going to, this, usually, generally in the teaching said,
when we leave the body, we can, our consciousness can leave any places.
Any place, any part of the body, we can leave.
But this time, we are making sure our consciousness will leave
through the central channel, and through the upper kronchakras, holes.
There is many holes, or many kinds of passages.
Of course, every pole of the body has holes.
Generally, according to the teaching.
But there is principal holes.
Among the principal holes, there is one hole known as center,
hole of the center channels on our kronchakra.
So we are going to use the center channel as our passage,
and that the kronchakra hole will be used, our final exit doors.
Exit door to go to the destination of the pure land of the Buddha Amitabhas.
That is what we're going to relax.
So, for that, again, this is just simple in our text.
And we visualize the Buddha Amitabha right above our head.
Again, same way as the Buddha Veda Sathama.
And once above our head, we visualize the Buddha Amitabha.
Buddha Amitabha is the same, Buddha as embodiment,
or Buddha as transcendental, transcendental, as I mentioned earlier.
We can call it embodiment that. And Buddha Amitabha is so calm,
so fierce for total enlightenment, totally low in kindness,
compared to us, to all the living beings.
Strongly that, visualize that, in glowing daily light.
And then we're going to visualize our consciousness in the heart centers.
According generally in the Veda and the teaching,
our consciousness, principal residence, residing place, is heart center, heart center.
So here, we visualize heart and consciousness.
And then we can't really visualize this center channel.
It's totally open, clear, as the hollow tubes.
A hollow, glowing hollow tube.
And we're going to see this moving up and up, up in the center channel,
and then went to the heart center of the Buddha Amitabha.
Can't we just make that preparation?
Of course, there's more instructing some poor practices,
but that's just kind of like that connection, that indication.
When the time comes, I'm going to do that.
I'm going to visualize and kind of see clearly my center channel
and my consciousness, and that indicator,
and then going to leave through the passage of that,
and the final exit door exit, I will use,
ejected of my consciousness to the heart center of the Buddha Amitabha.
Kind of thinking of that, and then join these prayers three times.
So here, see the reciting, as many times possible, motivated to transfer.
That's basically just this very simple practice of the board there.
And once we've finished that, and then final one here,
said, and now this chariot of the body and the dedication of the virtues.
Now, final one is then page 42.
And this is now this first two lines.
Here's two things.
Now my body, possessions, and source of my virtues,
all together I give without cling to all the beings who have been my parents.
So that is chariot of the bodies.
And then may I accomplish great benefit unobstructed,
obstructively for the beings. That is dedications of the virtues.
Virtues benefit to all the sentient beings.
So this is the two kind of practices or the two things.
And the first is chariot of the body is very really kind of condense
at the instructions of the two practices.
I think many of you heard two practices.
It is one of the great teachings of the Buddhas.
And one of the great practices of the Tibet Buddhism is known as two practices.
This is started with the, of course, time in the Gharapama Sambhava,
and then as well as there is like four great lineage of the two camps to Tibet
by Gharapama Sambhava, and by great master Marva Marva,
and by great master then Patamba Sanyi, and then one great master, lady master,
Machig Labdha Dhamma. So there is four great lineage camps.
Perto the Tibet, Tibet in all that.
And particularly, though that you started, particularly among all of that,
then this last one, the great wisdom Dakini, Machig Labdhu,
must become the leading master of the two practices
who came around the 11th century.
He is the emanation of the Yishimsoja and the emanation of the Tara,
and that was, he was born in Tibet.
And he is very famous.
Two practices, two means, it's a very word, what that means?
Cutting ego cling, cutting the attachment, that is what.
And mostly what we attach it and is to our body,
and therefore immediately go to the heart and root to cut the clinging to the body.
That is what this great master sought.
These teachings, of course, are also teaching of the Buddhas.
Buddha Shakyamuni gave these teachings, in the Mahayana teachings,
Pandya Parama teachings, and as well as then, in the Mahayana teachings.
So the great master, particularly Machig Labdhu,
kind of combined sutra, essence of the Mahayana sutra teaching
and the Vedayana teaching, joined together and made as dual practices.
It's become so powerful in Tibet.
And then, later on, this dual lineage practice of the Machig Labdhu,
kind of merged with all schools of Tibetan Buddhism.
To the Nyingma, to the Gaju, to the Sajja, to the Gelo,
everywhere really began to practice this and that.
So it's kind of merged to everyone.
But this practice has become so powerful.
And this is also, by these practices,
what I mean, again, in the Buddha's teaching,
in the Sesa in Gatha, very famous teaching,
Buddha taught Pandya Parama teaching, known as Sesa in Gatha,
which has 300 standard teachings.
And there, Buddha said, in that teaching,
by the poor powers,
then, at bodhisattva, with very skillfully courageous,
will overcome the poor demons.
Come the poor demons, those poor powers
are understanding the perfect meaning of the emptiness
and understanding, or keeping the perfect meaning of the bodhic kathas,
and maintaining perfect moralities.
And then, as well as perfect and lineage teachings.
Maintain, those are the four powers.
If you maintain that, that again,
if I summarize this, and then understand the emptiness
with the bodhic katha, with good conduct,
and with the lineage practices,
then you will overcome poor demons.
Poor demons has many different, again, in the teachings
that many of you already heard.
Those are known as the first, the query,
general poor demons in the Buddha teaching mentioned,
this demon of the aggregates, demon of the emotions,
demon of the death, demon of the distractions.
Those are the four demons, this.
And particularly in the Mati Laibron's teaching,
there is four demons.
This is the same thing, but she named slight different ways.
Or it's not just here, but again in the Buddha teaching too.
Those are known as tangible demons, untangible demons,
and demon of the excitements,
and demon of attachment, demon of the attachments.
So tangible, tangible demon, untangible demon,
and excitement demon, and attachment demons.
Those are the four demons that in the two practices.
And this is, again, we have the realization
and maintain a perfectly meaning of the great emptiness
and bodhic katha, good conduct,
and keeping the lineage teaching exactly as it,
overcome these four demons, poor demons.
And at the same time, we can cleanse and purify those four demons.
Whether in the general Buddha teaching, teaching,
teaching as a demon of the aggregate,
demon of the emotions, demon of the death,
demon of the distractions, or demon of that generally.
And specifically, again in the two practices,
demon of the tangible, untangible,
and excitement, and attachment, or the ego-cling.
That will be removed by this.
So with this understanding,
then you can give everything to every living beings.
Your body, your speech, and your physical, or physical,
and even your mind, love and compassion,
without any restructure to all the sentient beings,
and also without any holding back, endless.
Here I said, I give without clinging to all the beings.
Also endless, it's not just going to end there just one time.
You multiply it according to meditation.
Practice endless and total satisfaction to every living beings.
Not just something that you give and end it.
You give continually unending generosity practices
with your meditation and satisfy everyone with perfect status.
Perfect status.
So bear in to say that.
So that is about giving without clinging.
And that is again chariot of the body,
which means condense meaning of the two practices,
and then delicately merit.
May I complicate, may I complicate the great benefit,
unobstructed for all beings, is delicately merit.
Again, we start this practice with both each other,
kindness, compassion, thinking of all living beings.
We're going to concatenate this entire practice with, again,
with love and kindness, compassion to every living beings.
Whatever I gain from this, my practice, meditation,
seeing this, that energy, whatever, may I share that all living beings
to remove their suffering, the difficult troubles,
to ever last of their love, jobiness, joy, and peace.
Peace may eventually everyone reach enlightenment by my practices.
Really wishing sincerely from death of our heart
and dedicating that merit.
So that is really instructions of this two practices
and the dedication practices.
And now we kind of completed everything and very briefly.
And so if you like some questions, I'm happy to discuss,
but it's five o'clock already, so.
Okay, thank you. Sorry, sir.
Any questions?
I don't have time in the morning to do all of this at once.
Can I break it, like do it roughly in the morning
and do the rest when I come back from work?
I cannot do that.
What you can do.
Definitely, you can do anything with what suits your video schedule.
But however, as I said this morning,
morning or this whenever that,
you always do practices, for example, when you practice.
Get out in the morning, or sit on your cushion,
and now you're going to bring more joy and more appreciations.
And the appreciations of your life,
your situation, circumstances, really how lucky,
how beautiful, how precious it is to think of that.
And then you can also reflect everything is in permanent and thinking of that.
And that three thoughts, among the four train of the mind,
at least if you can bring that two thoughts, that very strongly that.
And then coordinates, everything is connected.
Everything is kind of really, really very connected.
All this, so what may I become?
Very thoughtful of every one of my actions.
And then I'm doing this made benefit for all the same things.
Kind of that thought, just for one minute or so,
one and a half minute, you can think of that four thoughts.
And that, and then with that, and you feel stop presence of the Gharapamma,
some of all the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas right in front of the sky,
and the Chakraful, and they develop the Bodhisattvas.
And then, if you have, I mean, if that will, for example,
that chanting that three times, three times, it won't take long times.
But if you, then, if still you have some times,
and then you start, if you have time to do all these things,
for example, like three times, three times,
and the Jaya in the major sattva mantra, maybe seven times,
a long time, one seven times, and a short one, maybe 21 times,
or one mala, whatever, and after that, then you go to the Guru Yoga,
and again, do those three times, practice visualize,
and then Jaya in the mantra, maybe 21 times, or one mala,
and then receive the blessings, meditate, meditate,
and then one, maybe two, three minutes, five minutes.
So, but if you have time, for example, 15 minutes, or half an hour,
then it can fit everything, everything there.
If that is like too many things to do that, then I will say,
again, do start with this four bones, four,
that reverse in the mind practices, rafu and bodhicata,
and then go to the Guru Yoga.
And practice seven lines, if you don't have time to do all of those,
prepare, join the seven line prayer three times,
and with meditation, reciting mantra 21 times, one mala,
and then receive that blessings, all that, and then meditate
for five minutes, and dedicate the merits.
Merit, and that also kind of thing, you're not doing all those things,
so many things, one after another, just really meditate
and assemble for 15 minutes, or 20 minutes.
- Great. - Great.
- Kurt had a question back. - Oh, and the Bush is over here.
- Yes, yes, yes, yeah. - You can pull the Bush out.
So, in our Indoor practice, we're focused on Guru Yoga,
and we've completed that, we've done our 100,000 mantras.
How do we know which practice to move on to next?
Actually, this is generally, next is,
then after the Guru Yoga practices, have you completed the Guru Yoga practices
according to the reputation of a number, according to the lineage as a token?
Then you really move to the, then rafuja and bhastakha togas.
Move to the rafuja and bhastakha.
When you finish that rafuja and bhastakha,
then you move to the, maybe, to the, both each other,
or you can move to the register of practice.
I mean, you can choose which you like, or we can discuss that,
but that's what we should do.
Then first, after you finish the Guru Yoga practices,
then go to the rafuja and bhastakha.
And even if you're doing rafuja and bhastakha,
you do both each other practices three times,
and others also, maybe, three times,
and seven times a month, I'm going to register the mantra,
and then focus to the rafuja and bhastakha.
- Thank you. - Okay.
What else?
Okay. Then we do short meditation,
and then I'm going to give,
I'm going to give the transmission of these practices.
These practices, and that is, again,
of course, maybe there is a few purposes.
Some purposes are on the, this was caught.
- Streaming. - Streaming, streaming this.
According to the, I think, generally transmission,
we don't, can do through the streaming, streaming.
But also definitely the blessings.
So I will give this, generally transmission is an involvement.
Those are always direct connection, contact,
according to most of the teachings.
Of course, some great high alums here,
high grade teachers, maybe, can do those things.
But however, then the regular way is the transmission,
the transmission, empowerment, all that really comes in.
They kind of contact each other and then receive the transmissions.
But however, I will do today, and we can count as blessings,
those who are kind of in the far distances,
and otherwise I will give these transmissions to him, okay?
And we all meditate.
We all meditate, and then I will give this transmission.
I will just read this.
(Tibetan)
Okay. Thank you, everyone. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank
you, everyone.
Thank you. Again, thank you very much, again, for having this opportunity to be discussing the
teaching of the Buddha.
Dharma, as I said this morning, and organized. So thank you very much.
And I'd like to, all the Sangha members of the Palm Beach Dharma Center, as well as the
friends of the Palm Beach Dharma Center, Sangha Dharma Center, and all the practitioners, again.
And the board members. And thank you very much, everyone, to organize and have this event.
So I'm so really thankful to everyone. Okay. Thank you, again. And, of course, whenever you
practice,
I wonder, already, these practices, I don't have to say, please, I have to say, please,
continue to practice this. Complete this. And not just the practice, even after you complete
these wonderful practices. Really keep this practice, wonderful practice, as a foundation
practice of whatever you practice. That was very special and meaningful of our practices.
And this, for example, great master, he's only doing it also many times in wonderful practices.
And great master, the popular languages are heard from great masters, such as Kenji Parnikar,
and others. He used to practice all the time, many, many times in wonderful practices.
And then so many other great masters, these practices. As I said, these wonderful practices,
these four reversals, that will mind, mind, the training of the mind, always kind of reflect
that even every, before the sessions of the practices, for example, really kind of breaks
in permanent and causing every result of the eye. Effect of the eye. Inevitable, samsara
is the nature of the difficult intervals. Reflect that thought. I said this morning,
if we reflect that, it will make our heart more warmer, more softer, more tender,
and we become very practical. In the common sense level, in samsara level too.
And then also it will make practice so fresh, so re-strengthening. Many times,
our many times, practicing as a kind of start with very enthusiasm, very energetic,
and then almost kind of that fading with that.
Because of eye, it's also not reflecting enough these four, four reflections, thoughts.
We really reflect that our practice will become so fresh and so energetic, so rewarding.
We don't have to feel relieved when we look back to our lives.
We're doing something so good and beautiful, we're moving forward.
So therefore, this window practice is so special, so beautiful.
And I again, so thankful to all of you who already practiced and completed that.
So wonderful, so beautiful. But I'd also like to encourage those who are starting now,
please practice this. This is embodiment of entirely Buddha teaching.
As I repeat many times, whenever you already know that. So it's so special.
That means we're touching to our own nature, our own beauty,
glorified that, making meaning for our lives, meaning for our lives,
meaning for also somebody's lives or others.
Those who we are associated with, our friend and family member,
and then to all the sentient beings. So therefore, thank you.
Please do the practice as much as you can.
And also, I thank very much everyone. Again, maybe there's someone watching this event.
And I wish you all, and thank you very much, your joyful effort and courage,
your commitment, willingness, and watching, and be with us.
Even though, according to Buddhas, in light means there's no difference
between time and space, all in one instant state.
But now, even we don't have that realization and modern time,
we are all triggered in one single room and discussing, chatting,
and feeling each other. So it's wonderful. I wish you, it's so beautiful.
I wish you all the great happiness, health, the beautiful to everyone.
Happy and health, beauty and fulfillment in our beautiful lives, something that we make so
different.
Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
Adios. Adios. Thank you. Thank you. And what's it called? That's it.
And adios, and hasta luego. Hasta luego. Hasta manana. Thank you.
And then I have some gift to you all. Do you have some announcement? Thank you.
Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Viposhek, I have been given the humble task of expressing to you
this afternoon the immense gratitude of this, our Sangha.
Please know that I speak for everyone here today when I say that my words convey the deeply
heartfelt sentiment among everyone in this space.
We are forever grateful to you, your guidance, your compassion and your blessings.
Thank you for your words of wisdom, your encouragement and your trust in us.
And thank you for bringing the teachings of the great masters to our untrained minds.
Please know that your kind heart, your tender smile, and your steady patience are the light that
continuously illuminates our path.
In this day, you have brought to us the moon your practice, bringing us closer to the entire Buddha
teachings and the teachings of the great Padmasambhava.
We commit to you to work with encouragement, devotion and joy in order to uncover our true nature
and for the benefit of all sentient beings.
You are our guru, our teacher in your return to our future.
Thank you, thank you very much for your kind words. Thank you.
May I present to you this gift from the Sangha?
Thank you, dear. Thank you so much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you everyone again, this beautiful thing.
And then I have some gift to you all. Please come up.
And you have some announcements?
Yes, yes, please, please.
I just wanted to extend an invitation to everyone for next Saturday, November 1st to join Ben of La
Rinpoche and the Palm Beach Dharma Centre
to our fall gala event, "Share the Dream, Raise the Kumbha" at 6pm and it will not be held here.
It will be held at the Lucerne Lake Swim Club.
This is a time of celebration commemorating the fruition of Venerable's Rinpoche's Dream called in
Sherat Pemmeling Retreat Centre.
And it's a time to now turn our energies towards its ongoing development, the building of the Kumb
ha that will be our shrine room.
So we hope you will come and enjoy an evening of delightful company.
Our food, entertainment, there will be a silent auction, as you have heard, of Tibetan Buddhists in
Asian art, artifacts, jewelry.
And there are invitations in the living room along with directions for how to get there and those
have all the information you need.
We ask that you please RSVP so that we know how many are coming in there as a list on the counter
for that.
So we hope that you'll join us for this evening.
It will be a lot of fun, it will be a real time of celebration, a time to pray together and
celebrate the blessings we've been giving and the blessings that we are planting the seeds for for
the future.
Also, Lama Lorraine will be meeting us in Yanyanun near Retreat Saturday, Wednesday, Monday,
November 8th or 10th.
And this is a traditional Buddhist meditation practice based on the bit of compassion known as the
Pazanang Chenrissi.
It's a profound and powerful practice of silence and fasting that purifies karma and accumulates
merit and wisdom.
There are also flyers available in the living room for this practice as well.
And for those of you who are taking refuge after Venerable Rifashe has bestowed his generous gift
to us, please join Kala's in the Lotus Room and he will help you to get settled for that very
beautiful opportunity.
Thank you, thank you, thank everyone, thank you, thank you.
Yeah, please come up. This is what I said here.
This is his own Duryodhana, which is a photo and his handwriting, his teaching.
Maybe you have, you already have, but this is very counter-sized nicely and we can put with our
ideas.
What is it here? It's his own handwriting, his intubated, but it's translated here.
Look at this photo, then look at your mind. Look at the one who is looking.
If you see this, you are the excellent ones.
So that's it, please come up.
That's for you. When you look at it, it helps you with the level of your children in your body.
(Singing in Duryodhana)